Do you know the simplest way to install
and maintain your code bases as they
grow? Here's something I've learned over
15 years of engineering with more than
50 plus code bases. You can tell how
great an engineering team is by the time
it takes for a new engineer to run the
project locally. This says a lot about
the team's growth and proficiency. And
when you're joining a new team, that
first interaction with the codebase and
with the team members is so important.
It really sets the stage for the new
hire. For great teams, it's one link to
one doc, a list of config file updates,
and then a few commands. For most teams
though, it's one to two days of pair
programming, Slack messages, rumaging
through outdated docs, and tons of back
and forth testing. In the age of agents,
we can do much better than this. The
trick is in combining scripts, docs, and
agents because agents when combined with
code beats either alone. Cloud code
released a brand new setup hook for this
very purpose. It's an interesting hook
though because it doesn't show up in the
life cycle diagram for cloud code hooks.
We're going to take this hook and push
it further because when you combine
deterministic hooks with standardized
agentic prompts, you get the best of
both worlds. Predictable execution,
intelligent oversight, and interactivity
when you need it. Let's discuss the best
way to install and maintain your code
bases as they grow in size and value.
The first thing I want to do here is
showcase a new powerful tool I've been
using to guide my commands, agents, and
developer tools. Let me introduce you to
just file. This is a simple command
runner that serves as a launchpad for
your engineering work. You can see I
have several commands set up, front end
setup, backend, reset artifacts, and
then we have something really
interesting. I'm kicking off many
different cloud agents with different
CLI flags. With just file, you, your
team, and your agents don't need to
remember or look up flags more than
once. They just run this. If we open the
terminal and type just, you can see all
the commands ready to go. This is a very
powerful tool for scaling and reusing
your customizable agents. Let's go ahead
and run our first command that activates
this new setup hook. If we type just
cli, we're going to kick off this claw
code command.
It doesn't look like anything happened
there, but this init flag changed the
workflow. This init flag in fact ran the
setup hook before it booted up this full
cloud code instance. If we look under
the hood here, open up the settings
file, we can see we have a brand new
setup hook. If we collapse just to our
setup hook, you can see we have two new
options for this hook. We're matching a
knit and maintenance. You can see just
like all of our other hooks, we're
running a setup init command. Let's
crack that open and let's see what
happened. We have a script that runs
several commands when we pass in d-init
into cloud code. It's just going to run
a few setup commands for us. All right,
so you can see here we have a run
function that is actually just going to
pass this right into a terminal instance
and execute the command. If we search
for run here, you can see we're running
uvync mpm install and we're executing
this database script. Our installation
command is doing installation work and
it runs anytime we pass in this dash and
flag into clawed code. This is just a
script. This is cool, but it's not that
novel. Most production code bases
already have scripts like this set up.
This is just raw deterministic code.
It's not that valuable. It's not that
new or novel. We'll talk about how we
can push this to the next level in a
moment. First, let's run our next just
command to kick off our maintenance
workflow.
Same pattern, different codebase life
cycle stage. We're going to clear. We'll
type just so we can see all of our
commands that we can quickly fire off.
And we'll type just clmm. This is our
deterministic codebase maintenance. It's
going to fire up cloud code and run in
maintenance mode. Just like our d-init
command, maintenance does something very
similar. You can see we're running setup
maintenance and it's another script
that's running another workflow with
deterministic code. You can see we have
another log file that's going to execute
and append. And if we just do that exact
same thing, you know, we have our run
command. We can collapse everything to
see what the script looks like. Let's go
ahead and look for where we're using
that run command. And you can see we're
updating our backend dependencies for
this codebase. We're running mpm update.
And then we're doing some additional
scripting on our database. For this
codebase example, we're using SQLite 3.
Just showcasing that you could be
running some type of maintenance
operation, migrations, artifact cleanup,
so on and so forth. Right? This is where
you run that. And again, this isn't that
interesting. Okay, it's a script that
runs when you pass in a specific flag
into starting up cloud code. It's nearly
the equivalent of just running this
yourself. So, why is this interesting?
Why did the cloud code engineers build
this out? Right? This is an optional
additional hook that runs before
sessions start. Right? And to be super
clear, if we search for setup, you can
see that this is a brand new script. And
you know, the cloud code team says it
themselves. Run this to set up and
maintain the code base. All right, use
this for operations you do not want to
run on every session like installing
dependencies, running migrations, or
periodic maintenance tasks. So again,
not super novel, but what we can do with
this is novel. When we combine this with
a great prompt, some logging, some
documentation, we can initialize and
then install and have an agent run to
validate this workflow. We can run a
command that does our installation for
us when we have that new engineer on our
team, that new hire. We can get them
quickly set up or we can set up our
codebase on other machines. Hint hint,
agent sandboxes, and they can just
quickly set things up right from this
just file. So, let's go ahead and see
what it looks like to combine scripts
with agents
just to see all of our options. Once
again, just cli. And you can see exactly
what this is going to run. The same
command with a prompt that's going to
immediately kick off. So, let's fire
this. And you can see here our install
command is running right away. The first
thing it does is it's running that
/prime command. You can think of this
like our claw.md file except it's
dynamic. You can point it to whatever
you want and you can run it whenever you
want. It's pulling in documentation.
It's understanding the codebase and then
it will run installation validation.
It's running the usual report for our
prime command, telling us how the
codebase works. When we're priming,
we're getting our agent up and running
on the basics of the codebase. But now,
this agent is continuing to install. So,
you can see the initialize hook ran and
now it's going to get the most recent
results and report them to us. So, we're
building an agent on top of our
deterministic installation process. You
know, keep note, we still ran a nit
there. So before our /prime command ran
and kicked off the user prompt sububmit
hook, we ran that setup command. We can
then thanks to our logging and
setup.nit, our agent can read that out
and report on it. All right, so it
actually created documentation for us on
installation. So we have install results
here and you can see it's reported it to
us. We don't even need to go that deep
though because it just gave us that
response right here. So if we open this
up, you can see it wrote that doc and it
gave us the install success. Now this is
a simple again demo example. A lot of
what I do here on the channel every
single week is I try to give you the
idea you can embed into your work into
your codebase. But you can see here we
have a great report. Now what if
something went wrong? This is where we
would add common workflow resolution
steps so that your installation prompt
does the job you would have to do when
you're setting up new engineers on your
team. when you're cloning your repo and
setting up new agent sandboxes. This
command is going to be very very
important for spinning up and setting up
your new code bases. And so this is our
/install command. So we've combined
terminism, some logging, and our agentic
prompt to set up our codebase in an
interactive way. This is a new pattern
that I'm going to be deploying in every
single one of my codebases moving
forward. Why not standardize your
installation process? And we can, of
course, open up this install prompt. you
know exactly where this is.cloud
commands/install
and we can see the following workflow.
As always, we have our standard agentic
prompt format with only the sections
that we need to ship this. We'll get to
our human in the loop mode variable here
in a second. But you can see this is a
very simple workflow. We're running our
/prime. We're checking if we're in
interactive mode, which we'll get to in
just a second. We read the log file. We
write the results and then report what's
going on to the user. All right. And
then from here you could add a lot more
detail on how to resolve any issues that
come up if you have common issues that
reoccur during the installation process.
Otherwise you can just have a
conversation with your agent and discuss
how to resolve the specific failures. So
that's the install command. Now this is
where things get interesting. We've now
combined agents with the existing
scripts with the logging. We can now do
something powerful like this.
So as normal, we'll run the just command
so we can see the available options to
us in this codebase. I find myself using
this just file over and over now to
standardize certain workflows, certain
agents, and certain ways to launching
into engineering inside of a specific
codebase. I really do think about the
just file as a launchpad for all the
commands that you and your team will run
and your agents will run throughout your
developer work. We're going to run a
very very powerful command that I think
will represent the future of how every
codebase will get set up. We're going to
run So we'll type just and
we'll kick this command off and it's
going to do something pretty incredible
here. Not only will we kick off the
codebase as normal, it's going to prime
itself, get itself set up, understand
where everything is much faster than you
or I could ever set up a new codebase
and truly understand it end to end. And
then we're going to run our human in the
loop version of this prompt. In fact,
it's just a branching point off from our
existing prompt. You can see our agent
recognizes since the mode argument is
true, I need to run interactive
installation. And now we're going to
work back and forth with our agent,
answer a few questions on how we want
things to get set up. This is very, very
powerful for onboarding new engineers.
So the first question here is how should
I handle the database? We'll say fresh
database. What installation mode? Full,
minimal, skip, we'll do full. Should I
check your environment variables? Let's
do it. How would you like to set these
up? Let's get the guided experience. And
then we can submit these questions. I
think Cloud Code only supports four
questions at a time. So that's why it's
doing this. There we go. So we're now
running the workflow. And you can see
our agent is doing some preliminary
tests. We want to see if we have Python,
Node, UV, blah blah blah. And then it's
just going to run the installation as it
did before, right? But now we have this
back and forth human in the loop process
where we can set things up together. All
right. So there it is initializing the
database. Now it's going to configure
our environment variables. So these are
just things that you need to do all the
time with your agents. You can see here
uh I have the environment variable
blocked. So this agent is not going to
be able to touch this. So now it's just
going to directly ask me have I set up
the environment file? And this all might
seem like a small thing that you could
just set up in the readme. But why do
this by hand anymore? you know, we're
adding to the pile of things that our
agents can do that we don't have to do
anymore. Write that configuration
prompt, write that maintenance prompt,
and then walk through it with your
agents, right? Make that onboarding
process for your codebase ultra smooth.
I'll just say that I've copied and
configured this. There's actually
nothing we need to configure for this
codebase in particular. You can see we
have some example uh files there. I'll
just say that I have done this. And then
our agent will just continue the
workflow. And so we're going down the
step, right? This process that you would
normally run with another engineer,
right? you would need to pair program or
you would be the one pair programming.
We now are running into another step. We
need to pull in some documentation for
our agents. And as things get more
agentic, this is going to be important.
What context you need to pull in from
your services, from your third party
applications, from your ticket
management systems, for your database.
This could be anything. We could be
walking through configuration steps for
AWS or the Google Cloud CLI. We really
are just working through common
developer workflows with our agents to
get things set up more quickly and very
importantly to standardize this process.
Right? If we look at the install.md, you
can see here we're running prime, but
then we're running this second command.
Check for interactive mode. If yes, kick
it off and ignore the rest of this
prompt. So what happens there, right,
install-hill. You can see here we have a
great classic agentic prompt, but inside
of the workflow, we have several
questions to ask the user. And that's
exactly what we're working through right
now, right? So go ahead. I'll say fetch
all docs. It's going to pull in outside
resources that it should have access to
cuz it has the environment variable set
up now. And we're going to do some
documentation scraping based on some
information in the prompt. So not only
is this great for the new engineer, but
it's great for the onboarding engineer,
right? The lead engineer, the you know,
your your co-worker. Setting this stuff
up is quite annoying and it's easy to
forget
all the different things it takes to set
up a new codebase. This is why it's so
powerful to in natural language just
prompt engineer a endto-end setup
process for your codebase. And now when
you have to update something, you don't
look at the docs. You look at the
script, the initial setup script, and
you look at this prompt right here,
right? Install human in the loop. You
can set up a great interactive workflow
like this or just an end-to-end oneshot
workflow where your agent then reports
everything that went right or wrong. And
so you can see here we have a
documentation scraping step. Our agent
pulled that in, wrote some new
documentation, did a little update in
interactive mode here. Looks like I just
ran that before. And then it's once
again giving us a great installation
summary. So again, you can just really
really nail in the process of setting up
your codebase in an interactive way with
the human in the loop, answering
questions, going back and forth, making
sure that things are set up properly. A
cool thing you can do as well is add
some verification steps so that once a
step completes, the agent actually goes
off and verifies that you know that
file, that variable, that asset is in
the right place for the codebase to run.
And you can run oneshot fully agentic
installation commands that just sets
everything up in a very opinionated way.
In our case here, it's very simple.
We're just running that standard init
script that the cloud code setup hook
kicked off for us. All right, so this is
all fantastic. I think this is really
going to be the future of how code bases
are set up and managed because it is the
agentic way that properly balances
determinism thanks to cloud code hooks
and thanks to great prompt engineering.
But we can push this even further,
right? It's not just about installing
new code bases because oftent times
there's going to be configuration and
maintenance work that needs to happen on
a day-to-day week-toeek basis. And
that's what brings us to the maintenance
problem.
We now have a command runner, right? A
minimalist command runner for
standardizing all the different ways we
run agents and developer tools in this
codebase. And we can of course run just
clmm.
So this is a gentic codebase
maintenance. Now this is a simple mock
testing application that I have here. We
have a back end and a front end. I think
this is just going to pretend to run a
migration on our in-memory SQL light
database. But the idea is just that if
there are any assets, if there's any
maintenance, if there's any codebase
cleanup, if you want to do security
checks in your codebase to make sure
that nothing has gotten leaked or to
make sure that there's no dead code or
dead code branches, the maintenance hook
is a great one to run. And the hook
itself is fine. Engineers running
production code bases, you already have
maintenance scripts. They're probably
just a lot more scattered than an
approach like this. The great part about
this is that once that deterministic
hook runs, we now have a prompt that
follows it up, validates it, and if it
wants to, it can run its own maintenance
additions to it as well. So I think
relying on the the maintenance scripts
alone and the setup scripts alone I
don't think it's actually that
interesting novel useful at all because
we can already do this right. What is
powerful is when you combine it with an
agentic prompt that you can interact
with or with an agentic prompt that is
intelligent enough to work through the
kind of second and third order issues
that might arise when you're setting up
a new codebase. And when they do arise,
you can recode it back into the prompt,
right? You can add the common problems
inside of the workflow. For instance,
you could do something like this. You
could say common issues. The database is
corrupt. Clear the database and rerun.
And just to be super clear here, right?
You would set up this section by saying
something like this. If you encounter
exactly any of the following issues,
follow the steps to resolve them. And so
the pattern here is simpler. Database
corruption and then solution. So you
might organize this language here like
this. You might say problem and then you
could say solution. And then you can
just kind of repeat this pattern. If you
want, you could encode this into, you
know, YAML block here. It doesn't really
matter. Agents are going to be able to
read whatever you put here. But that's a
way that you can set up maintenance and
installation prompts that are
intelligent and that have embedded the
common workflows of your code bases
installation and maintenance. None of
this is really rocket science,
especially if you've been with the
channel for a while. You know that we're
using prompts for everything now. And
we're setting up these reusable
workflows that we can deploy one or more
agents to solve problems agentically for
us. But I really wanted to capture this
idea in a single self-contained video
because it combined a couple of key
things that are going to be reoccurring
themes on the channel throughout the
entire year. Our theme for this year in
2026 is to increase the trust we have in
our agents. That means being able to
quickly operate customized solutions
that combine the old world of
engineering with the new world of
agents. We're talking about
deterministic code and agentics, right?
Prompts, skills, sub aents, multi- aent
orchestration, all of it. With just
files, we now have a simple file that we
can use to embed repeat prompts, repeat
agents, and repeat workflows. The just
files really do help put together the
install and maintain workflows, but also
this is a powerful tool for running
agents in many many configurations and
workflows. Right? All you need to do now
is come into your codebase, run just and
just see what's available. I highly
recommend you check out this tool. It's
very powerful. But what this offers us
when you combine it with prompts and
scripts coming right from the cloud code
brand new setup hook is a standardized
way to install and maintain your code
bases over time as they grow. Then you
can push that even further. Just running
scripts is probably not going to cut it
once your codebase gets more complex.
You're going to want to add intelligence
to that. We can quickly just copy and
paste this command and build a dedicated
prompt to do just that. We have an
install command. This is a pattern
that's gaining popularity. I'm not the
only one that's seen this and that's
using this pattern. I think the just
file is a new addition here, but if we
open up this blog here by Mintfi, you
can see they have pitched this exact
same idea very recently, January 15th, a
standard for LM executables. They're
trying to build a standard for this. I
don't think we really need a standard.
It's just the idea that matters, right?
Slashinstall slashs setup, whatever you
want to call it, however you want to
organize this. It's just a great way to
agentically set up and install and
operate the installation process. This
is one of those use cases, one of those
categories of very very clear return on
investment. Think about the time it
takes you to onboard a new engineer. Now
think about how fast you want your team
to grow. Then ask yourself, can we just
build a prompt? Can we basically build a
specialized agent that can run the setup
and installation process and the
maintenance process? And if you want to,
you can even make it interactive to make
every single step super clear. And the
answer to that question is you
absolutely can. Agents are good enough.
You are good enough. If you've been
watching this channel, you know, for any
amount of time really, you've seen these
powerful patterns that we're building
now, these powerful agentic workflows in
our agentics, right? In our prompts,
custom slash commands, sub aents, our
skills. It's all available here. There
has never been more opportunity and
there's never been more ways to truly
augment and automate your developer life
cycles in your codebase. But you have to
standardize it. You have to make it
consistent. And so that's why I think
the prompt, the hooks, the just files,
it was worth bringing together here for
you so that you can understand how to
repeatedly solve these problems with a
consistent pattern. Check out this
install maintain codebase. I built this
to give you a quick start on this
pattern. I'll also link of course the
cloud code documentation and I'll link
this just command runner. This thing is
super awesome because it's so simple. Uh
there are a lot more features in here we
didn't discuss. I'll be talking about
this tool on the channel more in the
future because it really allows us to
set up powerful inloop customized agents
that do one thing and do it
extraordinarily well. I think if you're
an engineering lead or you're involved
with hiring engineers on your team,
often these tools combined solves real
problems for you very, very well. It's
great for onboarding. New engineers run
one command and they get intelligent
help when they get stuck. It's great for
consistency. Everyone sets up the same
way every single time. And it's great
for maintenance. You can even boil these
prompts and these workflows into the
default of how your engineers run agents
in their codebase. When you set this up,
you get scheduled health checks. Your
codebase is always up to date. It's
always updating vulnerable mpm packages
which happens every other day now. And
really what you get here with these
prompts that help you install and
maintain is a living document that
executes. This is the dream for a lot of
engineers. We can now communicate action
in natural language and encode that for
the installation and maintenance of your
code bases as they grow. These three
ideas are very simple but very powerful.
Don't underestimate them. Link to this
codebase are going to be in the
description for you. I'll also link the
just docs and the claw hooks as well as
this blog post here for you. You know
where to find me every single Monday.
Stay focused and keep building.